# Human-Machine Interactive Mechanics 
Exploring human-machine interaction.

this section of the documentation is dedicated to researching and studying how we human beings actually interact with computers, so that we can understand which methods are humane and ethical and sustainable and closely match our psychological biological functions. and we can discard the methods that are shiny, and purely computational, but not usable by human beings. 

for example, there is a reason why computer programmers develop editors as some of the most useful kinds of software architecture. the reason the editor program is so useful, not only is because it provides a graphical interface to interact with the computer, but rather, it provides an interface to the medium itself so that it more closely matches that's of the physical kind of strange. this is the first core principle in the human-machine interface. 

essentially, if we take a look at svgs for example, they are entirely comprised of mathematical attributes, XML tags and numbers. however, nobody in their right mind is going to draw a picture of a Barney the dinosaur, entirely an svg. (lmao) the thing is it is computationally possible and maybe it's a fun mathematical computer project, but there's a reason why we have SVG editors. and this is a foundational idea in computation,. of data should not translate to purity of medium. the human being needs the physical constraint of the real world in order to function. computers are the same. 

so then, our research leads us to a foundational principle, the most sustainable kinds of computer programs, are that which mimic the physical constraints of the real world. not to simulate them but to provide a stable grounding for the human to interact with a deeply complex computational system. it isn't essentially reducing complexity or abstracting endlessly, rather it is modeling the physical substrate that makes things visible.

# How do we human beings interact with computers? 

from our personal observations, we can imagine this scene. imagine you are designing a nail polish truck, with a ui/ux designer. now, the human being actually using the software has to interpret what the other person is directing, and be able to access the program to make the design process as fluid and fluent and quickly as possible. because you should leave these are very high stakes stressful fields. so the programs need to offer several methods of which usually only one is the preferred somatic response. 

## Interfaces, Interfaces, Interfaces...
amongst these various methods, keyboard shortcuts remain prevalent. the graphical user interface might be the most obvious layer of computation, but there are several other methods of which the engineer, makes their computer program accessible to other human beings. we even see this within engineering itself, then the form of apis. nobody will be scavenging through messy code of a system, but if it is packaged as an interface with clear inputs and outputs, then essentially we see the core function of an interface, even in something that is purely digital, proto-visual, which is plain text code. and so from this weekend understand that the interface is not just a visual thing but it's rather a conceptual model. the interface is simply accessibility between input and output of a system.
## Keyboard Shortcuts 
in essence, some human beings will choose to use shortcuts to navigate a computer program. this is actually an incredibly fascinating part of computation, because the keyboard is essentially a muscle memory medium. touch typists discovered this decades ago when the typewriter was developed. and in the early days of computation, the keyboard was incredibly limited. and so engineers discovered clever ways to use the same keys for different functions. the most modern implementation, can be seen in programs like vs code, where shortcuts and cord key shortcuts, provide quite literally a new layer of somatic response. the interface between human and machine. we often neglect the power of our mouse and keyboard, and even voice driven command. the input output devices is a region of computation which we have yet to fully explore.
